Hokkaido is the only place in Japan
where red-crowned cranes still live but
settlers farms have swallowed up the
wetlands where they used to hunt for
fish and insects in these fields
pickings are slim
last century there were fewer than 30
cranes left in Japan it looked like they
might disappear altogether but salvation
has come from a small group of farmers
they don't just tolerate the cranes they
go out of their way to help them
throughout the winter they braved
sub-zero temperatures to feed these
giant birds over a hundred hungry mouths
gather every morning thanks to these
handouts the red-crowned crane has
fought back against extinction Hokkaido
is now home to nearly a thousand birds
whenever cranes get together no matter
what time of year they put on a show it
starts with a song
and then a dance
cranes often pair for life and this
ballet is key to that bond
but perhaps there's more to it than that
it seems that dancing is something that
cranes simply enjoy doing
thanks to their own tenacity and human
help these enormous irrepressible birds
have survived to dance another day
you